---
layout: page
title: Privacy Policy
---

We attach great importance to the protection of your data. In order to fully inform you about the use of personal data, please take note of the following data protection information.

## Personal Data

Personal data that you transmit electronically on this website, such as name, e-mail address, address or other personal information, will only be used by us for the specified purpose, kept securely and not passed on to third parties. The provider automatically collects and stores information on the web server such as the browser, operating system, referring page, IP address, time of access, etc. This data can not be assigned to any specific person without checking other data sources and we will not further evaluate this data unless it is illegal Use of our website exists.

##Form data and comments

If website visitors leave comments or form entries, the data entered and their IP addresses are saved. This is done for security, if someone writes illegal content (insults, extreme left or right propaganda, hate postings, etc.). In this case we are interested in the identity of the author.

## Cookies

Cookies are small files that enable this website to store specific, user-related information on the visitor's computer while our website is being visited. Cookies help us to determine the frequency of use and the number of users of our website, as well as to make our offers comfortable and efficient for you. On the one hand, we use session cookies, which are only cached for the duration of your use of our website, and on the other hand, permanent cookies to record information about visitors who repeatedly access our website. The purpose of using these cookies is to be able to offer optimal user guidance, to recognize visitors and to be able to present the most attractive website and interesting content when used repeatedly. The content of a permanent cookie is limited to an identification number. Name, IP address etc. are not saved. There is no individual profile about your usage behavior. A use of our offers is also possible without cookies. You can deactivate the storage of cookies in your browser, restrict it to certain websites or set your web browser (Chrome, IE, Firefox, ...) so that it notifies you as soon as a cookie is sent. You can also delete cookies from your PC's hard drive at any time. Please note, however, that in this case you will have to reckon with a limited display of the page and with limited user guidance.

## Data protection declaration for the use of Google Analytics

This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses so-called “cookies”, text files that are stored on your computer and that enable an analysis of your use of the website. The information generated by the cookie about your use of this website is usually transferred to a Google server in the USA and stored there. If IP anonymization is activated on this website, your IP address will be shortened beforehand by Google within member states of the European Union or in other contracting states of the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Only in exceptional cases will the full IP address be sent to a server from
Google transferred in the USA and shortened there. On behalf of the operator of this website, Google will use this information to evaluate your use of the website, to compile reports on website activity and to provide the website operator with other services related to website activity and internet usage. The IP address transmitted by your browser as part of Google Analytics will not be merged with other Google data. You can prevent the storage of cookies by setting your browser software accordingly; however, we would like to point out that in this case you may not be able to use all functions of this website to their full extent. You can also prevent Google from collecting the data generated by the cookie and relating to your use of the website (including your IP address) and from processing this data by Google by clicking on the following link ([https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en)) to download and install the available browser plug-in.

You can find more information on terms of use and data protection at [https://marketingplatform.google.com/about/analytics/terms/us/](https://marketingplatform.google.com/about/analytics/terms/us/) or at [https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6004245?hl=en](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6004245?hl=en). We would like to point out that on this website Google Analytics around the code "ga ('set', 'anonymizeIp', true);" was expanded to ensure the anonymized collection of IP addresses (so-called IP masking).

You can prevent the installation of cookies by setting your browser software accordingly; however, please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above. Further information on the use of data by Google when using this website can be found here.

## DISQUS comment function

On the basis of our legitimate interests in efficient, secure and user-friendly comment management according to Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f. GDPR is the comment service DISQUS, offered by DISQUS, Inc., 301 Howard St, Floor 3 San Francisco, California- 94105, USA. 

To use the DISQUS comment function, users can log in via their own DISQUS user account or an existing social media account (e.g. OpenID, Facebook, Twitter or Google). The user login data is obtained from the platforms through DISQS. It is also possible to use the DISQUS comment function as a guest without creating or using a user account with DISQUS or one of the specified social media providers.

We only embed DISQUS with its functions on our website, whereby we can influence the comments of the users. However, the users enter into a direct contractual relationship with DISQUS, in the context of which DISQS processes the comments of the users and is a contact person for any deletion of the users' data. We refer to DISQUS 'data protection declaration: [https://help.disqus.com/en/articles/1717103-disqus-privacy-policy](https://help.disqus.com/en/articles/1717103-disqus-privacy-policy) and also point out to users that they can assume that DISQUS stores not only the comment content but also their IP address and the time of the comment, as well as saves cookies on the users' computers and can use them to display advertisements. However, users can object to the processing of their data for the purpose of displaying advertisements: [https://disqus.com/data-sharing-settings](https://disqus.com/data-sharing-settings). 

## Right of information

You have the right at any time to obtain information about the data stored about you, its origin and recipient, and the purpose of storage.

